Docs: Access Monitoring (#38255)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/access-monitoring.mdx

---
title: Getting Started with Access Monitoring
description: Learn how to use Access Monitoring.
---

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Teleport Access Monitoring allows to query and analyze the audit events generated by Teleport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport Access Monitoring allows you to query and analyze the audit events generated by Teleport.
```

It provides a SQL interface to query the audit logs and generate reports.

> Access Monitoring is a powerful tool to understand and analyze the access patterns in your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer: The first 3 sentences of this paragraph all say basically the same thing: access monitoring allows you to query and analyze audit logs.

Can we remove some of the duplication here and simplify the language?

Author: squeezed to: 

> Access Monitoring is a powerful tool to understand and analyze the access patterns in your Teleport cluster.
This guide will help you understand how to use Access Monitoring to monitor access to resources in your Teleport cluster.

This guide will help you understand how to use Access Monitoring to monitor access to resources in your Teleport cluster.

## Prerequisites

> - Teleport Cloud cluster v14.2.2 or later.

Reviewer: If this guide is only for cloud, I wonder if we even need to mention the specific version. Maybe we just say "running Teleport 14 or later" since we know we aren't running any v14 tenants on versions this old.

## Access Monitoring RBAC Permissions

To access the Access Monitoring interface, a user must have a role that allows

> `list`, `read` and `use` verbs on the `audit_query` and `audit_query` resources.

Reviewer 2: Typo?
```suggestion
`list`, `read` and `use` verbs on the `security_report` and `audit_query` resources.
```

> By default the built-in `auditor` role has these permissions or you can create a custom role with these permissions e.g:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preset `auditor` role has these permissions by default. Alternatively, you can create a custom role with these permissions:
```

```yaml

> kind: role

Reviewer: Missing `version`?

Author: The version seems to be not necessary. Teleport Will set the default  current version during creation.

metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:

>     - resources:
>       - security_report
>       verbs:
>       - list
>       - read
>       - use
>     - resources:
>       - audit_query
>       verbs:
>       - list
>       - read
>       - use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - resources:
      - audit_query
      - security_report
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
      - use
```

```

## Query Editor
The Query Editor in Teleport Access Monitoring provides users with a powerful interface to interactively query audit logs and generate insightful reports.
It offers a user-friendly environment for constructing SQL queries tailored to specific use cases,

> allowing users to gain deep insights into access patterns and security events within Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allowing users to gain insights into access patterns and security events within Teleport cluster.
```

> Within the Query Editor, users have access to a diverse range of SQL views representing various audit events captured by Teleport.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Fewer "fluff" words.
```suggestion
Within the Query Editor, users have access to a number of SQL views representing audit events captured by Teleport.
```

> These views provide a comprehensive overview of activities within the Teleport cluster, enabling users to construct precise queries tailored to their monitoring needs.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this sentence to: "Users can write custom SQL queries for these views to build custom reports akin to querying a relational database."

> These views provide a comprehensive overview of activities within the Teleport cluster, enabling users to construct precise queries tailored to their monitoring needs.

Reviewer: This feels duplicative too.

We've already mentioned  a _powerful interface_, a _diverse range of views_, and _deep insights_. It feels like we're just repeating the same sales pitch with different words.

Below is a list of the available SQL views:

```
access_list_create
access_list_delete
access_list_member_create
access_list_member_delete
access_list_member_update
access_list_review
access_list_update
access_request_create
access_request_review
auth
bot_join
cert_create
db_session_query
db_session_query_failed
db_session_start
device_authenticate
device_enroll
exec
instance_join
join_token_create
kube_request
lock_created
lock_deleted
recovery_code_used
reset_password_token_create
saml_idp_auth
session_command
session_join
session_rejected
session_start
user_create
user_login
user_password_change
windows_desktop_session_end
windows_desktop_session_start
```

To access the Query Editor, navigate to the `Access Monitoring` section in the Teleport UI and click on the `Query Editor` tab.

> ### Here are a few query examples that demonstrate the capabilities of Access Monitoring

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### SQL query examples
```

- Query for unique users who executed a ssh command involving `/etc/passwd` file in some way:
```sql
SELECT
  DISTINCT user
FROM
  exec
WHERE
  command LIKE '%/etc/passwd%';
```

![exec passwd](../../img/access-monitoring/exec_passwd.png)

- Select the count of unique IP addresses associated with each user cert over different event dates:
```sql
SELECT
  event_date,
  identity_user AS user,
  COUNT(DISTINCT cert_create.identity_client_ip) AS unique_ip_count
FROM
  cert_create
GROUP BY
  event_date,
  identity_user
ORDER BY
  event_date;
```

> ![cert ip](../../img/access-monitoring/cert_create_ip.png)

Reviewer: I think we probably only need to show one screenshot. We can list multiple example queries in the docs, but all of these screenshots are basically the same (a query with a table showing the results)

- Selects users who interacted with the Teleport cluster from more than one different IP address:
```sql
SELECT * FROM (SELECT
  event_date,
  identity_user AS user,
  COUNT(DISTINCT cert_create.identity_client_ip) AS unique_ip_count
FROM
  cert_create
GROUP BY
  event_date,
  identity_user
ORDER BY
  event_date) AS data WHERE unique_ip_count > 1;
```

![cert ip count](../../img/access-monitoring/cert_create_ip_count2.png)

> - Sow all the unique IP addresses that were used by the user 'admin-annie':

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Show all the unique IP addresses that were used by the user 'admin-annie':
```

```sql
SELECT
  DISTINCT identity_client_ip
FROM
  cert_create
WHERE identity_user = 'admin-annie'
```
![ip user address](../../img/access-monitoring/ip_user_address.png)

- Show access requests and their reviews:
```sql
SELECT
  *
FROM
  access_request_create, access_request_review
WHERE
  access_request_create.id = access_request_review.id
```

![access request details](../../img/access-monitoring/access_request_details.png)

- Show details about access request and review:
```sql
SELECT
  request.user, request.reason, request.roles, request.resource_ids, review.reviewer, review.state
FROM
  access_request_create as request, access_request_review as review
WHERE
  request.id = review.id
```
![access request](../../img/access-monitoring/access_request.png)

### Query Examples with Assist AI

> AI assisted query is a feature of the Teleport Access Monitoring Query editor.

Reviewer: The query editor also integrates with Teleport Assist, making it easy to generate queries with a human-readable description of the data you want to retrieve.

> AI assisted query is a feature of the Teleport Access Monitoring Query editor.
> It provide SQL Query Suggestion suggestions based on the audit query schema available in your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AI assisted query feature provides SQL query suggestions based on the audit query schema available in your Teleport cluster.
```

![assist query](../../img/access-monitoring/assist_query_1.png)

> In the result the Assist based on human text will generate the SQL query:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teleport Assist will generate the SQL query based on the user prompt message:
```

![assist query result](../../img/access-monitoring/assist_query_2.png)

# Access Monitoring Reports

> Access Monitoring provides pre built reports to help you monitor and analyze access patterns in your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access Monitoring provides a number of pre-built reports.
```

> Access Monitoring provides pre built reports to help you monitor and analyze access patterns in your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access Monitoring includes several built-in reports to help you monitor and analyze access patterns in your Teleport cluster.
```

> - Privileged Access Report

Reviewer 2: I would make this (and future reports we add) into a separate sub-section.
```suggestion
## Privileged Access Report
```

    The `Privileged Access Report` reports offers valuable insight into identifying weak security events across infrastructure.
    The report allows to identify the following weak security events:

    - Database sessions with weak security
    - SSH sessions with weak security
    - Kubernetes API calls with weak security
    - Privileged Postgres sessions
    - Kube Execs
    - Long lived certificates
    - Long-lived join tokens
    - Root SSH sessions

>     - System Kubernetes API calls

Reviewer 2: Can we expand each of these to:

1. Give brief explanation of what it shows.
2. Show the underlying SQL query it runs.
3. Provide recommendation similar to what we show in the UI.

I would turn each of these into a sub-section as well e.g.

```
### Database sessions with weak security

... explanations, SQL, recommendation

### SSH sessions with weak security

...
```

Screenshots for each individual section aren't necessary here IMO, just a single screenshot you have below should be fine.

---
title: Getting Started with Access Monitoring
description: Learn how to use Access Monitoring.
---

Access Monitoring is a powerful tool to understand and analyze the access patterns in your Teleport cluster.
This guide will help you understand how to use Access Monitoring to monitor access to resources in your Teleport cluster.

## Prerequisites
- Teleport v14 or later.
- For Self-Hosted Teleport the [AWS Athena Backend](../reference/backends.mdx#athena) is required.

### Configuration

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

To enable Access Monitoring you need to update the Teleport Auth Service configuration:
```yaml
auth_service:
  access_monitoring:
    enabled: true
    # AWS role ARN that Teleport will assume to execute Athena SQL queries.
    role_arn: arn:aws:iam::111111111111:role/access-monitoring-role
    # S3 bucket where Access Monitoring reports will be stored.

>     report_results: s3://audit-long-example/report_results

Reviewer: What is `audit-long`? Did you mean to say `audit-log`?

(Do we want people to use the same bucket they use for audit logging or a different one?)

Author: Yes, It was intended to be audt-log-example thanks for catching this.

```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

Teleport Access Monitoring is enabled by default for all Teleport Cloud users.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Access Monitoring RBAC Permissions

To access the Access Monitoring interface, a user must have a role that allows
`list`, `read` and `use` verbs on the `security_report` and `audit_query` resources.
The preset `auditor` role has these permissions by default. Alternatively, you can create a custom role with these permissions:
```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - security_report
      - audit_query
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
      - use
```

## Query Editor

The Query Editor in Teleport Access Monitoring provides users with a powerful interface to interactively query audit logs and generate insightful reports.

> It offers a user-friendly environment for constructing SQL queries tailored to specific use cases,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

FROM
  cert_create
GROUP BY
  event_date,
  identity_user
ORDER BY
  event_date) AS data WHERE unique_ip_count > 1;
```

- Show all the unique IP addresses that were used by the user 'admin-annie':
```sql
SELECT
  DISTINCT identity_client_ip
FROM
  cert_create
WHERE identity_user = 'admin-annie'
```

- Show access requests and their reviews:
```sql
SELECT
  *
FROM
  access_request_create, access_request_review
WHERE
  access_request_create.id = access_request_review.id
```

- Show details about access request and review:
```sql
SELECT
  request.user, request.reason, request.roles, request.resource_ids, review.reviewer, review.state
FROM
  access_request_create as request, access_request_review as review
WHERE
  request.id = review.id
```

### Query Examples with Assist AI

The query editor also integrates with Teleport Assist, making it easy to generate queries with a human-readable description of the data you want to retrieve.

![assist query](../../img/access-monitoring/assist_query_1.png)

Teleport Assist will generate the SQL query based on the user prompt message:
![assist query result](../../img/access-monitoring/assist_query_2.png)

# Access Monitoring Reports

> Access Monitoring provides a number of pre-built reports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Access Monitoring provides a number of pre-built reports:
```

## Privileged Access Report

>     The `Privileged Access Report` reports offers valuable insight into identifying weak security events across infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `Privileged Access Report` reports offers valuable insight into identifying weak security events across infrastructure.
```

>     The report allows to identify the following weak security events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The report allows to identify the following weak security events:
```

### Database sessions with weak security

> Following query identifies database sessions with weak security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies database sessions with weak security
```

such as as sessions with missing access requests, MFA, impersonation, and trusted device identification.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    db_session_start
WHERE
    CARDINALITY(access_requests) IS NULL
AND
    with_mfa IS NULL
AND
    impersonator IS NULL
AND
    trusted_device_device_id IS NULL
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

![privileged access report](../../img/access-monitoring/privileged_access_report.png)

**Suggestion:**  Setup access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.

### SSH sessions with weak security

> Following query identifies SSH sessions with weak security,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies SSH sessions with weak security,
```

such as as sessions with missing access requests, MFA, impersonation, and trusted device identification.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    session_start
WHERE
    CARDINALITY(access_requests) IS NULL
AND
    proto='ssh'
AND
    with_mfa IS NULL
AND
    impersonator IS NULL
AND
    trusted_device_device_id IS NULL
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    proto,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

> **Suggestion:**  Setup access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggestion:**  Set up access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.
```

### Kubernetes API calls with weak security

Following query identifies Kubernetes sessions with weak security,
such as sessions with missing access requests, MFA, impersonation, and trusted device identification.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    kube_request
WHERE
    CARDINALITY(access_requests) IS NULL
AND
    with_mfa IS NULL
AND
    impersonator IS NULL
AND
    trusted_device_device_id IS NULL
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

> **Suggestion:**  Setup access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggestion:**  Set up access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.
```

---
title: Getting Started with Access Monitoring
description: Learn how to use Access Monitoring.
---

> Access Monitoring is a powerful tool to understand and analyze the access patterns in your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Fewer fluff words.

```suggestion
Access Monitoring allows users to understand and analyze the access patterns in a Teleport cluster.
```

> This guide will help you understand how to use Access Monitoring to monitor access to resources in your Teleport cluster.

Reviewer 2: I would remove this sentence because it basically repeats the previous one.

Instead, I think what's missing is a short description of what access monitoring actually is and what it allows you to do. We're jumping straight into talking about configuration without explaining _what_ it actually does and _how_ do you actually monitor and analyze access in your cluster. I think we should give a brief description to help users build a mental model of what it is and how it works.

Something like this:

```
When Access Monitoring is enabled in a cluster, Teleport runs a background service that collects
signals/data from different input sources, builds graphical reports highlighting different usage patterns
within the cluster and allows users to create automated response actions.

The primary signal source for Access Monitoring system currently is the Teleport audit log. Out of the box
Teleport includes a report that searches the audit log for events indicating risky usage patterns (such as SSH
or database sessions without MFA) and provides users with recommendations on suggested actions.

Users are able to write their own custom access monitoring queries by querying the audit log represented as
a number of virtual database views using SQL.
```

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

To enable Access Monitoring you need to update the Teleport Auth Service configuration:
```yaml
auth_service:
  access_monitoring:
    enabled: true
    # AWS role ARN that Teleport will assume to execute Athena SQL queries.
    role_arn: arn:aws:iam::111111111111:role/access-monitoring-role
    # S3 bucket where Access Monitoring reports will be stored.
    report_results: s3://audit-log-example/report_results
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

Teleport Access Monitoring is enabled by default for all Teleport Cloud users.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Access Monitoring RBAC Permissions

To access the Access Monitoring interface, a user must have a role that allows
`list`, `read` and `use` verbs on the `security_report` and `audit_query` resources.
The preset `auditor` role has these permissions by default. Alternatively, you can create a custom role with these permissions:
```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: my-role
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources:
      - security_report
      - audit_query
      verbs:
      - list
      - read
      - use
```

## Query Editor

> The Query Editor in Teleport Access Monitoring provides users with a powerful interface to interactively query audit logs and generate insightful reports.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Fewer fluff words.
```suggestion
The Query Editor in Teleport Access Monitoring provides users with an interface to interactively query audit logs and generate reports.
```

Users can write custom SQL queries for these views to build custom reports akin to querying a relational database.

Within the Query Editor, users have access to a number of SQL views representing audit events captured by Teleport.
Below is a list of the available SQL views:

> ```

Reviewer 2: Can this be made a collapsible block?

Reviewer 2: We do support it. You can use "details" block with the "closed" tag:

```
<Details title="Available SQL views" closed>
...
</Details>
```

Author: Thanks.

FROM
  cert_create
GROUP BY
  event_date,
  identity_user
ORDER BY
  event_date) AS data WHERE unique_ip_count > 1;
```

- Show all the unique IP addresses that were used by the user 'admin-annie':
```sql
SELECT
  DISTINCT identity_client_ip
FROM
  cert_create
WHERE identity_user = 'admin-annie'
```

- Show access requests and their reviews:
```sql
SELECT
  *
FROM
  access_request_create, access_request_review
WHERE
  access_request_create.id = access_request_review.id
```

- Show details about access request and review:
```sql
SELECT
  request.user, request.reason, request.roles, request.resource_ids, review.reviewer, review.state
FROM
  access_request_create as request, access_request_review as review
WHERE
  request.id = review.id
```

### Query Examples with Assist AI

The query editor also integrates with Teleport Assist, making it easy to generate queries with a human-readable description of the data you want to retrieve.

![assist query](../../img/access-monitoring/assist_query_1.png)

Teleport Assist will generate the SQL query based on the user prompt message:
![assist query result](../../img/access-monitoring/assist_query_2.png)

# Access Monitoring Reports

> Access Monitoring provides a number of pre-built reports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access Monitoring provides a number of pre-built reports.
```

## Privileged Access Report

The `Privileged Access Report` reports offers valuable insight into identifying weak security events across infrastructure.
The report allows to identify the following weak security events:

### Database sessions with weak security

> The Following query identifies database sessions with weak security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies database sessions with weak security
```

such as as sessions with missing access requests, MFA, impersonation, and trusted device identification.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    db_session_start
WHERE
    CARDINALITY(access_requests) IS NULL
AND
    with_mfa IS NULL
AND
    impersonator IS NULL
AND
    trusted_device_device_id IS NULL
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

![privileged access report](../../img/access-monitoring/privileged_access_report.png)

**Suggestion:**  Set up access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.

### SSH sessions with weak security

> The Following query identifies SSH sessions with weak security,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies SSH sessions with weak security,
```

such as as sessions with missing access requests, MFA, impersonation, and trusted device identification.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    session_start
WHERE
    CARDINALITY(access_requests) IS NULL
AND
    proto='ssh'
AND
    with_mfa IS NULL
AND
    impersonator IS NULL
AND
    trusted_device_device_id IS NULL
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    proto,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

**Suggestion:**  Set up access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.

### Kubernetes API calls with weak security

> The Following query identifies Kubernetes sessions with weak security,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies Kubernetes sessions with weak security,
```

such as sessions with missing access requests, MFA, impersonation, and trusted device identification.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    kube_request
WHERE
    CARDINALITY(access_requests) IS NULL
AND
    with_mfa IS NULL
AND
    impersonator IS NULL
AND
    trusted_device_device_id IS NULL
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

**Suggestion:**  Set up access requests, device trust and per-session MFA.

### Privileged Postgres sessions

> The Following query identifies privileged PostgreSQL sessions initiated by the 'postgres' user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies privileged PostgreSQL sessions initiated by the 'postgres' user.
```

```sql
SELECT
	event_date,
	COUNT(*) AS count,
	user
FROM
    db_session_start
WHERE
    db_protocol='postgres' and db_user='postgres'
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

**Suggestion:** Downgrade database connections to less privileged database user.

### Kube Execs

> The Following query identifies Kubernetes exec usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies Kubernetes exec usage.
```

    count(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    exec
WHERE
    proto='kube'
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    proto,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

**Suggestion:**  Eliminate usage of kube exec.

### Long lived certificates

The Following query identifies long-lived certificates, where the certificate expiration time is greater than 1 day.

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT
    event_date,
    COUNT(*) AS count,
    identity_user AS user
FROM
    cert_create
WHERE
    from_iso8601_timestamp(identity_expires) - from_iso8601_timestamp(time) > INTERVAL '1' DAY
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    identity_user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

**Suggestion:**  Use short lived certificates less than a working day. Check out Machine ID to get short lived certificates for your automation.

### Long-lived join tokens

The Following query identifies long-lived join tokens where the token expiration time is greater than 1 day.

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    COUNT(*) as count,
    node_name,
    host_id
FROM
    instance_join
WHERE
    FROM_ISO8601_TIMESTAMP(token_expires) - FROM_ISO8601_TIMESTAMP(time) > INTERVAL '1' DAY
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    node_name,
    host_id
ORDER BY
    event_date
```

> **Suggestion:**  Use short-lived tokens to reduce risk of compromise or AWS/GCP/Azure joining when possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Suggestion:**  Use short-lived tokens to reduce risk of compromise or delegated joining when possible.
```

Bonus points for linking to Hugo's new joining page.

Author: Done, Thanks for suggestion.

### Root SSH sessions

> The Following query identifies SSH sessions initiated by the 'root' user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies SSH sessions initiated by the 'root' user.
```

```sql
SELECT
    event_date,
    COUNT(*) as count,
    user
FROM
    session_start
WHERE
    login='root'
GROUP BY
    event_date,
    user
ORDER BY
    event_date
```
**Suggestion:**  Don’t use `root` for SSH sessions, downgrade access to users with sudo privileges instead.

### System Kubernetes API calls

> The Following query identifies Kubernetes API calls initiated by users in the 'system:master' group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query identifies Kubernetes API calls initiated by users in the 'system:master' group.
```

---
title: Getting Started with Access Monitoring
description: Learn how to use Access Monitoring.
---

Access Monitoring allows users to understand and analyze the access patterns in a Teleport cluster.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

When Access Monitoring is enabled in a cluster, Teleport runs a background service that collects
data from different input sources, builds graphical reports highlighting usage patterns
within the cluster, and allows users to create automated response actions.

The primary data source for Access Monitoring is the Teleport audit log. Out of the box,
Teleport includes a report that searches the audit log for events indicating risky usage patterns (such as SSH
or database sessions without MFA) and provides users with recommendations on suggested actions.

Users are able to write their own custom access monitoring queries by querying the audit log.

## Prerequisites
- Teleport v14 or later.

> - For Self-Hosted Teleport the [AWS Athena Backend](../reference/backends.mdx#athena) is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For self-hosted Teleport the [AWS Athena Backend](../reference/backends.mdx#athena) is required.
```

### Configuration

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">

To enable Access Monitoring you need to update the Teleport Auth Service configuration:
```yaml
auth_service:
  access_monitoring:
    enabled: true
    # AWS role ARN that Teleport will assume to execute Athena SQL queries.
    role_arn: arn:aws:iam::111111111111:role/access-monitoring-role
    # S3 bucket where Access Monitoring reports will be stored.

>     report_results: s3://audit-log-example/report_results

Reviewer 2: Something that just occurred to me, we should also tell users what IAM permissions Teleport needs to use access monitoring, right? We can add it as a follow up.

Author: Right, I will do this as fallow up.

```

</TabItem>

> <TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Cloud-Hosted">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<TabItem scope={["cloud","team"]} label="Teleport Cloud">
```
